Now that we have simplified our claims, let's turn our attention to the next problem.
I have clients still have one more problem of dealing with multiple instances of this over that they
are connecting to.
So we dealt with this problem partly for our internal services.
So let's say this gateway service and disorder service, when they were connecting to other services,
they could deal with multiple instances with the help of discovery service or discovery service, had
information of all these services and for each service, what all instances are there?
That information was there.
Indeed, discovery service and all the services which needed that information could fetch that information
from the discovery service.
And once they come to know that let's get reservist has to call authorization service, then it knows
that there are two instances of authorization service so it can decide which.
Instance, it would like to call at a particular incident, so that job is done by a load balance,
and we discussed that we are using ribbon load balancer over here, although we partly discuss we left
a discussion for this time and now is the right time to discuss that.
But before we get there, let's discuss this problem in the entirety.
So we have a problem over here.
We know this that we can solve through discovery service, but we still have problem for other clients.
So let's say our browser climb and mobile client of their to connect to gateway service or if they have
to connect to this web application.
So the problem is letter browser clients want to connect to their application, then which instance
it should connect to.
Similarly, for mobile client and for web application when they're connecting to gateway service, which
gateway service instance they should connect to.
So that is still a problem.
They will need some sort of guidance as to what all instances are present on this oversight and which
instance they should call at a particular incident.
OK, so the solution to this problem is that we introduce another component in between.
So let's say for our web application, when our browser is trying to access our web application there,
we can introduce a reverse proxy load balancer in between.
So what this reverse proxy load balancer will do is that client now needs to know only about the load
balancer in between.
And this law, Balancer will proxy the request to these instances behind the load balancer so it can
choose whichever instance of this web application it needs to call for a particular request.
So similarly, for our mobile clients and for our web application, when it is acting as a client of
Gateway Service there, we can introduce this load balancer in between and this load balancing work
proxy, the request to the Gateway service instances.
So these are con server side load balancing because your clients are not aware of their calling any
load balancer, they just call a particular instance which can routing requests to the right backend
so it instant so they they are not aware of if they are being load balance or their requests are being
load balanced.
But there are other kind of load balancers, data calls, client side load balancers.
They are different from server side load balancer in the sense that your client itself is aware of multiple
instances present for on this oversight, and it decides on its own which instance it is going to make
a call to.
So let's say this product service, it has got two instances it has registered itself it Yureka service.
So here this particular ribbon client to this discovery service gets out of these two instances of product
service.
So then it has to call the product service.
It can choose any of those instances, and it can make that call.
So this is something we will see how it is implemented.
But at this point, we only need to be aware of two things that either we can introduce oversight,
load balancers or we have this option of client side load balancer.
So the added benefit of plain side load balancing is that there is no extra job in between.
So that said, this web application client has to CalDigit the service.
It will be proxy through this server side load balancer.
So that is one network hub in between.
But in case of plain side load balancers, they can directly connect to these service instances.
There is no network hop in between, so it's relatively faster, and that makes a good solution for
server side.
So internally, for microservices, it's a good solution because here the code is in our control.
We can write the code to go to discovery service, fetch the only instance information and then these
internal load balancer can make use of that information.
But when our clients are, they're outside of our system, we have no control over them.
Then it makes sense to have server side load balancer because we do not want that complexity to go to
the line site.
We want that complexity to remain on server side so that we can take control of that.
So this is where server side load balancers, they become useful.
Now the next decision that we need to make over here, once we decided to use the server side load balancer
in plain sight load balancer, which load balancer we should use.
So far, so let's say load balancers, we have multiple choices, but two popular choices are Engine
X and Apache.
In fact, what I would like to mention over here is that if the load is extremely high in that world,
that is typically high for customer facing application components.
So let's add this gateway service and this web application will face external clients.
So here, if it's a huge large size application, then the load on the load balancers can be extremely
high.
So there we will not go for software base load balancers that actually we will have to go for hardware
base load balances.
But in this system that we are making over here, we cannot get hardware to base load balancer.
So we are going to stick to software base load balances and there are choices.
And in Zen about these are two very popular choices.
Now among these two choices engine is much better choice because Indian X, due to its asynchronous
request handling model, it handles large number of requests much more efficiently than Apache Web Server.
So engine is a much better reverse proxy.
So there's this theory was proxy that we are going to use as a load balancer for our external facing
claims.
Now, for internal clients of these microservices clients there, we can use this Netflix Robin Load
Balancer.
The reason for using this is we are already using Netflix unique the service we're using Netflix get
the service because we are already working with Spring of Java Spring Framework.
So here.
Netflix provided a ribbon load balancer internal load.
Balancer becomes an automatic choice for us and the reason we have chosen Client Side Load Balancer.
We're already discussed that the communication between client and so it becomes much more efficient
if you use Klein side load balance.
The only thing that we need to handle is the complexity of knowing all these services through discovery
service, and we have seen that how we can handle that.
So this is the approach that we are going to take.
So now next, what we are going to do is we are going to implement and ICS for our web application and
get this service, and we will also see a little bit remaining stuff on Netflix.
Robin Load Balancer.